To better understand why data schemas are important,
let's walk through an example scenario.
Pretend that we're working together on a data engineering project.
On this project, we're consuming data from a production web service through Kafka.
This web service that we're consuming data from has no formally defined schema.
Let's say we finish developing our data application and deploy it.
So as you can see, data is flowing through the system successfully.
A producer is creating data,
sending it through Kafka,
and the consumer is consuming the data.
All is going well for a few weeks until suddenly we
get a page from our alerting system that our consumer application is down.
So we log on and start looking at the logs for application.
We noticed that our logs are filled with errors.
These errors show that our Kafka consumer is failing to deserialize
the received data into our application's model. What happened?
We message our partners on the web server team to see if anything has changed.
After looking through their code they say, "Well, yeah,
we restructured the data model on our end because of a requirements change.
Now there's nothing left for us to do as a data consumer but to drop everything and
quickly update our application code to handle
this modeling change from the upstream application."
This is a high pressure and costly endeavor and
not a situation we really want to repeat or find ourselves in ever again.
What could we have done differently?
If we'd worked with our colleagues in
the web server team and asked them to define a schema,
we would have had a more formalized agreement
as to what the data should have looked like.
This schema would have updated when the data changed
helping our application stay resilient to the update.
This means that not only would our application have continued to stay online,
it would have been able to process the newly formatted messages.
Some schema definition languages can even indicate backwards,
forwards, or fully compatible changes as you'll see in the upcoming lessons.
So we can see the breaking change down here.
Say that the update happened at message 3,002 that broke our consumer.
We expect an ID and a name.
That's what the consumer application was receiving up to the message 3,001,
but at message 3,002,
the producer team or the web server team updated their format to
drop the ID and rename the name column to the first name.
Our consumer application when it tries to unpack
this data doesn't know how to handle it and crashes.